----------------------
|  WEEK 1 WORKSHEET  |
----------------------


1. How do you plan on exhibiting professionalism at Techtonica? 
   What would be different in a full-time engineering job setting?
	-> My behavior at Techtonica should be fairly the same as that in a full-time engineering job. 
	The only differences might be in different role dynamics or organizational culture.
	In the current remote setting, this includes...
	- Presenting  myself in a clean and professional way (ie not the "just-rolled-out-of-bed" look) and being on time
	- Treating everyone with respect, unconditionally, including their time and efforts
	- Being very explicit/clear in my tone, even if that means adding an emoji or the likes (if appropriate), 
	because words can come off very differently via text.
	- Communicating with others in a timely manner, such as asking/responding to questions, giving updates, etc.
	all while keeping boundaries in mind ie not feeling obligated to respond to sudden late-night messages.


2. What would you do if you just found out you are going to be an hour late tomorrow morning?
	-> In the context of Techtonica, I would let my SEAM know as soon as I can. 
	If I had any special responsibilities such as presenting something, 
	I would let my teammates know and try to make the case-appropriate arrangements.


3. What would you do if you realized that you only had time to finish most of your work by the due date of a group project?
	-> I'd let my manager and my groupmates know, ideally as soon as possible so adjustments 
	can be made without sudden crunches or panic.


4. Knowing yourself, what are the most effective ways for you to learn and retain new information?
	-> I know I do really well as a "do-er", which can mean trying something myself or 
	taking notes to keep myself engaged while reading/watching.
	Spaced-repetition with practicing the thing and explaining it to others also helps 
	further my understanding and retention of that new info. 


5. What is growth mindset?
	-> Having a growth mindset means believing that your knowledge and skills aren't fixed, 
	that we all have the capacity to learn them. There are different learning styles so if something 
	doesn't make sense in one form, a growth mindset encourages exploring a different approach.


6. Which operating system are you using right now? Name two other popular operating systems.
	-> Currently I'm using OSX/MacOS, which is Unix-based like Linux.
	Another popular OS is Microsoft Windows.


7. Why do computers need operating systems?
	->  It's a means for us to communicate with our machines, without knowing machine or assembly code,
	to manage processes and communications between hardware and software.


8. Explain what you would do if you felt stuck on a coding problem.
	-> I'd first try and narrow down what exactly am I stuck on, or if I can't figure out the specific step
	I list out all the steps to get to my end goal on paper. Sometimes that walkthrough can be enough to get unstuck,
	alternatively talk it out with the "rubber duck" method.
	Then I try reading through documentation (if possible), searching on google, etc, and give myself time to process.
	After giving myself some time to try and figure it out, then I'd ask someone else like a teammate or mentor for help.
	I'd go through generally what that stuck seems to be and what I've tried + any results/outputs.

9. Describe the ways you plan on meeting and staying connected with new people in tech this month.
	-> While I can't meet in-person with others right now, I plan to be more active on Twitter 
	and try to engage (via replies) with at least three different people. I also want to make at least three
	tweets of my own, since I know that's one of my weaknesses.


10. Describe some examples of effective body language and what is communicated when they are used well.
	-> Eye contact and occasional nodding when someone is speaking/showing something
	communicates that you are actively listening to them.
	Keeping your body open like sitting upright (not slouched) and hands free-ish communicates
	an sense of openness and makes you more approachable too. 

11. Describe some examples of effective word choice and what is communicated when they are used well.
	-> The use of suggestions/questions such as, "What if we tried..." or "Do you think that __ might work?"
	works really well when giving feedback or collaborating with others. It frames your statements not as 
	absolute facts, but instead communicates a sense of openness and that you want to engage with others.
	Especially in critiques, this encourages a growth mindset in others.


12. How can you build trust in a team?
	-> Honesty, clarity, and ensuring that everyone feels their feedback + work are acknowledged.
	By clarity I mean with planning, feedback, priorities, goals, etc. so that no one feels uncertain.


13. How are the devices on the internet physically connected to each other?
	-> A device connects to the internet through an ethernet cable (ie to a router or modem), 
	or wirelessly via radio waves to another wired device (ie a router, access point, cell towers). 
	These all ultimately connect to submarine cables all over the world. 

14. How is information physically transmitted from device to device?
	-> Data is transmitted in the form of light, eletricity, or radio waves as packets, which consist of binary data.


15. How does one device find another it’s trying to communicate with?
	-> IP (Internet Protocol) addresses, and if the device isn't on the local network, 
	then it uses DNS (Domain Name System) to figure out the intended IP address. If it's already found it before
	a device uses its cache to retrieve the destination's IP address, otherwise the DNS takes the domain name
	and essentially find a server that can resolve it to an IP address.


16. What methods do devices on the internet use to communicate?
	-> Modern devices use the TCP/IP model which are a set of protocols/means of connecting to other devices.
	It consists of four layers:
	1. Application: 
		involves communicating in a way meaningful to humans like HTTPS (web browsers + servers for webpages)
		or SMTP (email protocol)
	2. Transport: 
		involves TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) to resolve how data should be delivered and recieved,
		including how data is converted into packets
	3. Network/Internet:
		involves IP (Internet protocol) and the actual delivering of the packets between two devices 
	4. Access/Interface:
		involves the hardware of a network and how it's physically connects to other devices (ie wifi or ethernet)


17. How can we send data reliably even if the network is unreliable?
	-> TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) ensures that data is sent and recieved in a uniform way,
	it also defines the packet's format.

